README.adoc, before:

:ALPINE_VERSION: 3.23.2
:ASCIIDOCTOR_VERSION: 2.0.26
:ASCIIDOCTOR_CONFLUENCE_VERSION: 0.0.2
:ASCIIDOCTOR_PDF_VERSION: 2.3.24
:ASCIIDOCTOR_DIAGRAM_VERSION: 3.1.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_EPUB3_VERSION: 2.3.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_FB2_VERSION: 0.8.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_MATHEMATICAL_VERSION: 0.3.5
:ASCIIDOCTOR_REVEALJS_VERSION: 5.2.0
:KRAMDOWN_ASCIIDOC_VERSION: 2.1.1
:ASCIIDOCTOR_BIBTEX_VERSION: 0.9.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_KROKI_VERSION: 0.10.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_REDUCER_VERSION: 1.0.2
:ASCIIDOCTOR_RUBYEVAL_VERSION: 1.0.0
= Asciidoctor Docker Container
:source-highlighter: coderay

////
GitHub renders asciidoctor natively, but DockerHub does not (it needs markdown).
`make README.md` converts this page into markdown.
////

== The environment

This Docker image provides:

* https://asciidoctor.org/[Asciidoctor] {ASCIIDOCTOR_VERSION}
* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-diagram/[Asciidoctor Diagram] {ASCIIDOCTOR_DIAGRAM_VERSION} with ERD and Graphviz integration (supports plantuml and graphiz diagrams)
* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-pdf/[Asciidoctor PDF] {ASCIIDOCTOR_PDF_VERSION}
* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-epub3/[Asciidoctor EPUB3] {ASCIIDOCTOR_EPUB3_VERSION}
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-fb2/[Asciidoctor FB2] {ASCIIDOCTOR_FB2_VERSION}
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-mathematical[Asciidoctor Mathematical] {ASCIIDOCTOR_MATHEMATICAL_VERSION}
* https://docs.asciidoctor.org/reveal.js-converter/latest/[Asciidoctor reveal.js] {ASCIIDOCTOR_REVEALJS_VERSION}
* https://rubygems.org/gems/asciimath[AsciiMath]
* Source highlighting using http://rouge.jneen.net[Rouge], https://rubygems.org/gems/coderay[CodeRay] or https://pygments.org/[Pygments]
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-confluence[Asciidoctor Confluence] {ASCIIDOCTOR_CONFLUENCE_VERSION}
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-bibtex[Asciidoctor Bibtex] {ASCIIDOCTOR_BIBTEX_VERSION}
* https://github.com/Mogztter/asciidoctor-kroki[Asciidoctor Kroki] {ASCIIDOCTOR_KROKI_VERSION}
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-reducer[Asciidoctor Reducer] {ASCIIDOCTOR_REDUCER_VERSION}
* https://gitlab.com/defmastership/asciidoctor-rubyeval[Asciidoctor Rubyeval] {ASCIIDOCTOR_RUBYEVAL_VERSION}

This image uses Alpine Linux {ALPINE_VERSION} as base image.

NOTE: Docker Engine link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/#20100[20.10] or later is required (or any container engine supporting link:https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Release_Notes_for_Alpine_3.14.0[Alpine 3.14]) to avoid unexpected `No such file or directory` errors (such as link:https://github.com/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor/issues/214[#214] or link:https://github.com/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor/issues/215[#215]).

NOTE: This image uses the Go-based https://github.com/kaishuu0123/erd-go/[erd-go] instead of the original Haskell-based https://github.com/BurntSushi/erd[erd] to allow the Docker image to be provided as a multi-platform image.

== How to use it

Just run:

[source,bash]
----
docker run -it -u $(id -u):$(id -g) -v <your directory>:/documents/ asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor
----

or the following for https://podman.io/[Podman]:

[source,bash]
----
podman run -it -v <your directory>:/documents/ docker.io/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor
----

Docker/Podman maps your directory with [path]_/documents_ directory in the container.

NOTE: You might need to add the option `:z` or `:Z` like `<your directory>:/documents/:z` or `<your directory>:/documents/:Z` if you are using SELinux. See https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/#configure-the-selinux-label[Docker docs] or https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-run.1.html#volume-v-source-volume-host-dir-container-dir-options[Podman docs].

After you start the container, you can use Asciidoctor commands to convert AsciiDoc files that you created in the directory mentioned above.
You can find several examples below.

* To run Asciidoctor on a basic AsciiDoc file:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor sample.adoc
asciidoctor-pdf sample.adoc
asciidoctor-epub3 sample.adoc
----

* To run AsciiDoc on an AsciiDoc file that contains diagrams:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-with-diagram.adoc
asciidoctor-pdf -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-with-diagram.adoc
asciidoctor-epub3 -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-with-diagram.adoc
----

* To run AsciiDoc on an AsciiDoc file that contains latexmath and stem blocks:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor -r asciidoctor-mathematical sample-with-diagram.adoc
asciidoctor-pdf -r asciidoctor-mathematical sample-with-diagram.adoc
asciidoctor-epub3 -r asciidoctor-mathematical sample-with-diagram.adoc
----

* To use Asciidoctor Confluence:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor-confluence --host HOSTNAME --spaceKey SPACEKEY --title TITLE --username USER --password PASSWORD sample.adoc
----

* To use Asciidoctor reveal.js with local downloaded reveal.js:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor-revealjs sample-slides.adoc
asciidoctor-revealjs -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-slides.adoc
----

* To use Asciidoctor reveal.js with online reveal.js:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor-revealjs -a revealjsdir=https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/reveal.js/3.9.2 sample-slides.adoc
asciidoctor-revealjs -a revealjsdir=https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/reveal.js/3.9.2 -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-slides.adoc
----

* To convert files in batch:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm -u $(id -u):$(id -g) -v $(pwd):/documents/ asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor asciidoctor-pdf index.adoc
----
+
or:
+
[source,bash]
----
podman run --rm -v $(pwd):/documents/ docker.io/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor asciidoctor-pdf index.adoc
----

== How to contribute / do it yourself?

Check the link:https://github.com/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.adoc[Contributing to the Asciidoctor Docker Container] page.

Commit message:

Add asciidoctor-defmastership and defmasterships

README.adoc, after:

:ALPINE_VERSION: 3.23.2
:ASCIIDOCTOR_VERSION: 2.0.26
:ASCIIDOCTOR_CONFLUENCE_VERSION: 0.0.2
:ASCIIDOCTOR_PDF_VERSION: 2.3.24
:ASCIIDOCTOR_DIAGRAM_VERSION: 3.1.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_DEFMASTERSHIP_VERSION: 1.3.3
:DEFMASTERSHIP_VERSION: 1.3.4
:ASCIIDOCTOR_EPUB3_VERSION: 2.3.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_FB2_VERSION: 0.8.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_MATHEMATICAL_VERSION: 0.3.5
:ASCIIDOCTOR_REVEALJS_VERSION: 5.2.0
:KRAMDOWN_ASCIIDOC_VERSION: 2.1.1
:ASCIIDOCTOR_BIBTEX_VERSION: 0.9.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_KROKI_VERSION: 0.10.0
:ASCIIDOCTOR_REDUCER_VERSION: 1.0.2
:ASCIIDOCTOR_RUBYEVAL_VERSION: 1.0.0
= Asciidoctor Docker Container
:source-highlighter: coderay

////
GitHub renders asciidoctor natively, but DockerHub does not (it needs markdown).
`make README.md` converts this page into markdown.
////

== The environment

This Docker image provides:

* https://asciidoctor.org/[Asciidoctor] {ASCIIDOCTOR_VERSION}
* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-diagram/[Asciidoctor Diagram] {ASCIIDOCTOR_DIAGRAM_VERSION} with ERD and Graphviz integration (supports plantuml and graphiz diagrams)
* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-pdf/[Asciidoctor PDF] {ASCIIDOCTOR_PDF_VERSION}
* https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoctor-epub3/[Asciidoctor EPUB3] {ASCIIDOCTOR_EPUB3_VERSION}
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-fb2/[Asciidoctor FB2] {ASCIIDOCTOR_FB2_VERSION}
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-mathematical[Asciidoctor Mathematical] {ASCIIDOCTOR_MATHEMATICAL_VERSION}
* https://docs.asciidoctor.org/reveal.js-converter/latest/[Asciidoctor reveal.js] {ASCIIDOCTOR_REVEALJS_VERSION}
* https://rubygems.org/gems/asciimath[AsciiMath]
* Source highlighting using http://rouge.jneen.net[Rouge], https://rubygems.org/gems/coderay[CodeRay] or https://pygments.org/[Pygments]
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-confluence[Asciidoctor Confluence] {ASCIIDOCTOR_CONFLUENCE_VERSION}
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-bibtex[Asciidoctor Bibtex] {ASCIIDOCTOR_BIBTEX_VERSION}
* https://github.com/Mogztter/asciidoctor-kroki[Asciidoctor Kroki] {ASCIIDOCTOR_KROKI_VERSION}
* https://github.com/asciidoctor/asciidoctor-reducer[Asciidoctor Reducer] {ASCIIDOCTOR_REDUCER_VERSION}
* https://gitlab.com/defmastership/asciidoctor-rubyeval[Asciidoctor Rubyeval] {ASCIIDOCTOR_RUBYEVAL_VERSION}
* https://gitlab.com/defmastership/asciidoctor-defmastership[Asciidoctor Defmastership] {ASCIIDOCTOR_DEFMASTERSHIP_VERSION}
* https://gitlab.com/defmastership/defmastership[Defmastership] {DEFMASTERSHIP_VERSION}

This image uses Alpine Linux {ALPINE_VERSION} as base image.

NOTE: Docker Engine link:https://docs.docker.com/engine/release-notes/#20100[20.10] or later is required (or any container engine supporting link:https://wiki.alpinelinux.org/wiki/Release_Notes_for_Alpine_3.14.0[Alpine 3.14]) to avoid unexpected `No such file or directory` errors (such as link:https://github.com/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor/issues/214[#214] or link:https://github.com/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor/issues/215[#215]).

NOTE: This image uses the Go-based https://github.com/kaishuu0123/erd-go/[erd-go] instead of the original Haskell-based https://github.com/BurntSushi/erd[erd] to allow the Docker image to be provided as a multi-platform image.

== How to use it

Just run:

[source,bash]
----
docker run -it -u $(id -u):$(id -g) -v <your directory>:/documents/ asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor
----

or the following for https://podman.io/[Podman]:

[source,bash]
----
podman run -it -v <your directory>:/documents/ docker.io/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor
----

Docker/Podman maps your directory with [path]_/documents_ directory in the container.

NOTE: You might need to add the option `:z` or `:Z` like `<your directory>:/documents/:z` or `<your directory>:/documents/:Z` if you are using SELinux. See https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/#configure-the-selinux-label[Docker docs] or https://docs.podman.io/en/latest/markdown/podman-run.1.html#volume-v-source-volume-host-dir-container-dir-options[Podman docs].

After you start the container, you can use Asciidoctor commands to convert AsciiDoc files that you created in the directory mentioned above.
You can find several examples below.

* To run Asciidoctor on a basic AsciiDoc file:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor sample.adoc
asciidoctor-pdf sample.adoc
asciidoctor-epub3 sample.adoc
----

* To run AsciiDoc on an AsciiDoc file that contains diagrams:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-with-diagram.adoc
asciidoctor-pdf -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-with-diagram.adoc
asciidoctor-epub3 -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-with-diagram.adoc
----

* To run AsciiDoc on an AsciiDoc file that contains latexmath and stem blocks:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor -r asciidoctor-mathematical sample-with-diagram.adoc
asciidoctor-pdf -r asciidoctor-mathematical sample-with-diagram.adoc
asciidoctor-epub3 -r asciidoctor-mathematical sample-with-diagram.adoc
----

* To use Asciidoctor Confluence:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor-confluence --host HOSTNAME --spaceKey SPACEKEY --title TITLE --username USER --password PASSWORD sample.adoc
----

* To use Asciidoctor reveal.js with local downloaded reveal.js:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor-revealjs sample-slides.adoc
asciidoctor-revealjs -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-slides.adoc
----

* To use Asciidoctor reveal.js with online reveal.js:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor-revealjs -a revealjsdir=https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/reveal.js/3.9.2 sample-slides.adoc
asciidoctor-revealjs -a revealjsdir=https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/reveal.js/3.9.2 -r asciidoctor-diagram sample-slides.adoc
----

* To run AsciiDoc on an AsciiDoc file that contains Defmastership blocks:
+
[source,bash]
----
asciidoctor -r asciidoctor/defmastership sample-with-defmastership.adoc
asciidoctor-pdf -r asciidoctor/defmastership sample-with-defmastership.adoc
asciidoctor-epub3 -r asciidoctor/defmastership sample-with-defmastership.adoc
----

* To convert files in batch:
+
[source,bash]
----
docker run --rm -u $(id -u):$(id -g) -v $(pwd):/documents/ asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor asciidoctor-pdf index.adoc
----
+
or:
+
[source,bash]
----
podman run --rm -v $(pwd):/documents/ docker.io/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor asciidoctor-pdf index.adoc
----

== How to contribute / do it yourself?

Check the link:https://github.com/asciidoctor/docker-asciidoctor/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.adoc[Contributing to the Asciidoctor Docker Container] page.
